---
title: Quiz 1
date: 2014-09-11 23:13 UTC
tags: HFOSS, Quiz
summary: "In Chapter 3 of Stephen Weber's The Success of Open Source, there was a listing of eight 'General Principles' contained within the chapter. Last week, we discussed in class the five pillars of 'The Open Source Way.' This is a quiz on the differences and similarities of these two lists."
---

## Quiz 1

### 1) What are the titles of each [Pillar](http://opensource.com/open-source-way){:target="_blank"}?

1. Open Exchange
2. Participation
3. Rapid prototyping
4. Meritocracy
5. Community

### 2) What are the titles of each [General Principle (pp. 72-82)?](http://hfoss-fossrit.rhcloud.com/static/books/decause-Weber-SuccessofOpenSource-Chap3.pdf){:target="_blank"}

1. Make it interesting and make sure it happens
2. Scratch an itch
3. Minimize how many times you have to reinvent the wheel
4. Solve problems through parallel work processes
5. Leverage the law of large numbers
6. Document what you do
7. Release early and release often
8. Talk a lot

### 3) What are the similarities between Weber's eight principles, and the five pillars?

Weber's principles of *solve problems in parallel*, *minimize how many times you have to reinvent the wheel*, and *release early* read kind of like a how to guide for the third pillar, *rapid prototyping*. *Make it interesting* and *scratch an itch* (effectively the same idea) are proven on the grounds of *meritocracy*, at least in the way opensource.com intends it to be used. The *law of large numbers* is directly synonymous with the way the fifth pillar, *community*, meaning a global community can accomplish far more than one individual or team can on its own. Finally *open exchange* and *participation* all come down to communication, which is what Weber is describing with *document what you do* and *talk a lot*.

### 4) What are the differences?

Weber's principles are presented in a more [normative](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normative){:target="_blank"} form: this is how *you* should do open source (e.g. (you should) document what you do). Whereas the 5 pillars are more explanatory: this is what an open source perspective looks like (e.g. Community).  

Weber's is obviously far more verbose with his explanations of each point taking almost 10 pages, whereas the pillars can be viewed on one reasonably sized screen. Weber uses this space to not just explain what he means, but also to give a little proof through examples or showing how this may play out in different situations.

I think both these differences are the result of their different contexts and they don't really contradict each other. Weber presents his in the middle of a section focused on understanding the people and their motivations, so he frames it from a developers perspective within the community. This contrasts with the Opensource.com Pillars, which I assume are focused on educating the public on what open source is. Not to mention the different expectations from a web context vs. the middle of a lengthy book.

### 5) Who's "keen analysis" did Weber "draw heavily" upon?

[Eric Raymond](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_S._Raymond){:target="_blank"}, a programmer, author, and open source advocate.

### 6 & 7) What was the title of this "keen analysis" and where can it be found?
[Eric Raymond's 17 Unix Rules](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy#Eric_Raymond.E2.80.99s_17_Unix_Rules){:target="_blank"}, originally from his book [The Art of Unix Programming](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Art_of_Unix_Programming){:target="_blank"}.

